README.md, before:

# YouTube 5-Minute Slideshow Blocker

**YouTube 5-Minute Slideshow Blocker** is a Chrome extension that forces you to wait and remain active for 5 minutes before playing any YouTube video. During these 5 minutes, a slideshow (with user-provided images) is displayed, accompanied by a timer. If you are inactive for more than 10 seconds at a stretch, the countdown is paused until you move the mouse, click, or press any key on the keyboard again. Once 5 minutes of active time passes, the overlay disappears and the YouTube video starts playing.

## Table of Contents

- [YouTube 5-Minute Slideshow Blocker](#youtube-5-minute-slideshow-blocker)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Features](#features)
    - [Soon ✨](#soon-)
  - [Project Structure](#project-structure)
    - [Description of Key Files](#description-of-key-files)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Customization / Options Page](#customization--options-page)
  - [Technical Details](#technical-details)
  - [Known Limitations](#known-limitations)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [License](#license)

---

## Features

1. **Slideshow Overlay**  
   - Displays images in a loop on top of the YouTube page.  
   - Cycle slides every 5 seconds (this can be changed in the code).

2. **5-Minute Timer**  
   - Counts down from 300 seconds (5 minutes).  
   - Pauses if you remain inactive for more than 10 seconds.

3. **Forced Pause on Video**  
   - Video is automatically paused at the start.  
   - Only resumes after the countdown completes.

4. **Content Script & Options Page**  
   - Content script inserts and manages the overlay on YouTube watch pages.  
   - Options page allows you to add or remove images for the slideshow.

### Soon ✨

- Habit list - each habit checked remove fraction of time from timer or unlock one video
- Background voice of Jocko "GOOD" motivation speech - Possible to pause it
- Popup with habit checker
- Add icons
- Motivational quotes
- Counter of habits done
- Pictures transition
- Goal pictures carousel

---

## Project Structure

```bash
YouTube-5-minute-slideshow-blocker/
│
├── manifest.json          # Main manifest (Manifest V3)
├── background.js          # (Optional) Used if you need event-based background scripts
├── content-script.js      # Core logic that runs on YouTube watch pages
├── options.html           # Extension options page (UI for managing slideshow images)
├── options.js             # Logic for handling the options page
├── slideshow.css          # Styles used by the slideshow overlay
├── icons/
│   ├── icon16.png
│   ├── icon48.png
│   └── icon128.png
└── README.md              # This file
```

### Description of Key Files

- **manifest.json**  
  Defines the extension’s name, permissions, content scripts, icons, etc.

- **content-script.js**  
  Injected on YouTube watch pages (`*://www.youtube.com/watch*`, `*://www.youtube.com/shorts*`). Creates and manages the slideshow overlay, counts down 5 minutes, monitors user activity, and resumes the video at the end.

- **options.html** and **options.js**  
  Provide an interface for users to configure the extension. Specifically, users can add or remove image URLs for the slideshow.

- **slideshow.css**  
  Contains styles to make the overlay, slides, and timer look presentable and stand out over the YouTube player.

- **icons/**  
  Contains icon resources for the extension displayed in Chrome’s toolbar or extension manager.

---

## Installation

1. **Clone or Download this Repository**  
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/szunaj13pl/YouTube-5-minute-slideshow-blocker.git
   ```
   Or download the ZIP and extract it.

2. **Open Google Chrome** and navigate to:
   ```
   chrome://extensions
   ```

3. **Enable Developer Mode**  
   - In the top right corner (or left, depending on Chrome version), toggle **Developer mode** on.

4. **Load Unpacked Extension**  
   - Click **Load unpacked** (or **Load Unpacked Extension**).
   - Select the `YouTube-5-minute-slideshow-blocker/` folder that contains the manifest.json file.

5. **Verify Installation**  
   - The extension should appear in the list with its icon and name.  
   - Pin it if desired so you can easily access extension info from the Chrome toolbar.

---

## Usage

1. **Navigate to a YouTube Video** (any URL such as `https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xyz` or `https://www.youtube.com/shorts/xyz`).  
2. **Slideshow Overlay Appears**  
   - You’ll see a dark overlay with a slideshow of images, a timer, and an inactivity warning that appears if you stop interacting for 10 seconds.
3. **Remain Active for 5 Minutes**  
   - Move the mouse, click, or press keys to keep the countdown going.
   - If you remain inactive for more than 10 seconds, the timer pauses.
4. **Video Resumes**  
   - After 5 minutes of active time, the overlay disappears and the YouTube video starts playing.

---

## Customization / Options Page

You can load your own images into the slideshow:

1. **Go to Chrome Extensions**:
   ```
   chrome://extensions
   ```
2. **Locate “YouTube 5-Minute Slideshow Blocker”**  
   - Click the “Details” button or “Options” link.
3. **Add Image URLs**  
   - Paste the direct image URL (https://...) into the text box.  
   - Click “Add” to store it.  
4. **Delete or Edit Existing Image Paths**  
   - Use the “Remove” button to delete any images you no longer want.

If you don’t add any images, a default message (“No images in slideshow...”) will appear on the overlay.

---

## Technical Details

- **Manifest V3**  
  The project is built using Chrome Manifest V3, ensuring compliance with the latest guidelines for Chrome extensions.

- **Content Script**  
  The main logic is implemented in `content-script.js`, which:  
  - Inserts a `<div>` overlay with a slideshow.  
  - Pauses any YouTube video via `document.querySelector('video').pause()`.  
  - Tracks user activity with event listeners on `mousemove`, `keydown`, `click`.  
  - Resumes the video once the 5-minute timer completes.

- **Storage**  
  The extension uses `chrome.storage.sync` to persist the list of image URLs so that your slideshow settings are retained across sessions (and can potentially sync if you’re logged into Chrome).

---

## Known Limitations

1. **YouTube Behavior**  
   - In rare cases, YouTube might auto-resume the video. We attempt to pause repeatedly until the timer finishes, but certain reloading or ads might cause unexpected behavior.

2. **No Network Connection**  
   - If image URLs load slowly or are offline, the slideshow may display blank images.

3. **Single Timer**  
   - The 5-minute timer is universal. If you open multiple YouTube tabs, each tab uses its own overlay and timer instance.

4. **Only for YouTube Watch Pages**  
   - The extension currently only matches URLs containing `youtube.com/watch` and `youtube.com/shorts`. It won’t activate on channel pages or other sections of YouTube.

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! To contribute:

1. Fork the repository  
2. Create a new branch (e.g., `feature/add-new-animation`)  
3. Commit and push your changes  
4. Open a Pull Request describing the changes you made

Please ensure your contributions are well-tested and documented.

---

## License

[MIT License](LICENSE)

---

<p align="center">
  <b>Enjoy your productivity boost and limit those YouTube distractions!</b>
</p>

Commit message:

📝 (README.md): update "Soon" section to "Soon implemented" for clarity and accuracy ✨ (README.md): expand on upcoming features and improvements for the project The "Soon" section in the README.md file has been updated to "Soon implemented" to accurately reflect the status of the listed features. Additionally, the upcoming features have been expanded upon to provide more details on the habit list, background voice options, options settings, popup functionalities, and goal pictures carousel. This update aims to provide a clearer roadmap for the project's development and features.

README.md, after:

# YouTube 5-Minute Slideshow Blocker

**YouTube 5-Minute Slideshow Blocker** is a Chrome extension that forces you to wait and remain active for 5 minutes before playing any YouTube video. During these 5 minutes, a slideshow (with user-provided images) is displayed, accompanied by a timer. If you are inactive for more than 10 seconds at a stretch, the countdown is paused until you move the mouse, click, or press any key on the keyboard again. Once 5 minutes of active time passes, the overlay disappears and the YouTube video starts playing.

## Table of Contents

- [YouTube 5-Minute Slideshow Blocker](#youtube-5-minute-slideshow-blocker)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Features](#features)
    - [Soon implemented ✨](#soon-implemented-)
  - [Project Structure](#project-structure)
    - [Description of Key Files](#description-of-key-files)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Customization / Options Page](#customization--options-page)
  - [Technical Details](#technical-details)
  - [Known Limitations](#known-limitations)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [License](#license)

---

## Features

1. **Slideshow Overlay**  
   - Displays images in a loop on top of the YouTube page.  
   - Cycle slides every 5 seconds (this can be changed in the code).

2. **5-Minute Timer**  
   - Counts down from 300 seconds (5 minutes).  
   - Pauses if you remain inactive for more than 10 seconds.

3. **Forced Pause on Video**  
   - Video is automatically paused at the start.  
   - Only resumes after the countdown completes.

4. **Content Script & Options Page**  
   - Content script inserts and manages the overlay on YouTube watch pages.  
   - Options page allows you to add or remove images for the slideshow.

### Soon implemented ✨

- Habit list
  - Counter of habits done
  - Each habit checked
    - remove fraction of time from timer
    - unlock one video
    - add time to use blocked websites
- Background voice of Jocko "GOOD" motivation speech
  - pause it on leaving tab resume on activity
  - mute
- Options
  - set timers (allow, block)
  - CRUD
    - goal images
    - blocked pages
- Popup
  - habit checker
  - include this page in blocking
- Add icons
- Motivational quotes
- Goal pictures carousel
  - Pictures transition
- Possibility to add other websites like (`instagram.com`, `facebook.com`, ect.)
  - block base on lime spend on site instead of url
  - exclude form blocking messages subpage

---

## Project Structure

```bash
YouTube-5-minute-slideshow-blocker/
│
├── manifest.json          # Main manifest (Manifest V3)
├── background.js          # (Optional) Used if you need event-based background scripts
├── content-script.js      # Core logic that runs on YouTube watch pages
├── options.html           # Extension options page (UI for managing slideshow images)
├── options.js             # Logic for handling the options page
├── slideshow.css          # Styles used by the slideshow overlay
├── icons/
│   ├── icon16.png
│   ├── icon48.png
│   └── icon128.png
└── README.md              # This file
```

### Description of Key Files

- **manifest.json**  
  Defines the extension’s name, permissions, content scripts, icons, etc.

- **content-script.js**  
  Injected on YouTube watch pages (`*://www.youtube.com/watch*`, `*://www.youtube.com/shorts*`). Creates and manages the slideshow overlay, counts down 5 minutes, monitors user activity, and resumes the video at the end.

- **options.html** and **options.js**  
  Provide an interface for users to configure the extension. Specifically, users can add or remove image URLs for the slideshow.

- **slideshow.css**  
  Contains styles to make the overlay, slides, and timer look presentable and stand out over the YouTube player.

- **icons/**  
  Contains icon resources for the extension displayed in Chrome’s toolbar or extension manager.

---

## Installation

1. **Clone or Download this Repository**  
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/szunaj13pl/YouTube-5-minute-slideshow-blocker.git
   ```
   Or download the ZIP and extract it.

2. **Open Google Chrome** and navigate to:
   ```
   chrome://extensions
   ```

3. **Enable Developer Mode**  
   - In the top right corner (or left, depending on Chrome version), toggle **Developer mode** on.

4. **Load Unpacked Extension**  
   - Click **Load unpacked** (or **Load Unpacked Extension**).
   - Select the `YouTube-5-minute-slideshow-blocker/` folder that contains the manifest.json file.

5. **Verify Installation**  
   - The extension should appear in the list with its icon and name.  
   - Pin it if desired so you can easily access extension info from the Chrome toolbar.

---

## Usage

1. **Navigate to a YouTube Video** (any URL such as `https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xyz` or `https://www.youtube.com/shorts/xyz`).  
2. **Slideshow Overlay Appears**  
   - You’ll see a dark overlay with a slideshow of images, a timer, and an inactivity warning that appears if you stop interacting for 10 seconds.
3. **Remain Active for 5 Minutes**  
   - Move the mouse, click, or press keys to keep the countdown going.
   - If you remain inactive for more than 10 seconds, the timer pauses.
4. **Video Resumes**  
   - After 5 minutes of active time, the overlay disappears and the YouTube video starts playing.

---

## Customization / Options Page

You can load your own images into the slideshow:

1. **Go to Chrome Extensions**:
   ```
   chrome://extensions
   ```
2. **Locate “YouTube 5-Minute Slideshow Blocker”**  
   - Click the “Details” button or “Options” link.
3. **Add Image URLs**  
   - Paste the direct image URL (https://...) into the text box.  
   - Click “Add” to store it.  
4. **Delete or Edit Existing Image Paths**  
   - Use the “Remove” button to delete any images you no longer want.

If you don’t add any images, a default message (“No images in slideshow...”) will appear on the overlay.

---

## Technical Details

- **Manifest V3**  
  The project is built using Chrome Manifest V3, ensuring compliance with the latest guidelines for Chrome extensions.

- **Content Script**  
  The main logic is implemented in `content-script.js`, which:  
  - Inserts a `<div>` overlay with a slideshow.  
  - Pauses any YouTube video via `document.querySelector('video').pause()`.  
  - Tracks user activity with event listeners on `mousemove`, `keydown`, `click`.  
  - Resumes the video once the 5-minute timer completes.

- **Storage**  
  The extension uses `chrome.storage.sync` to persist the list of image URLs so that your slideshow settings are retained across sessions (and can potentially sync if you’re logged into Chrome).

---

## Known Limitations

1. **YouTube Behavior**  
   - In rare cases, YouTube might auto-resume the video. We attempt to pause repeatedly until the timer finishes, but certain reloading or ads might cause unexpected behavior.

2. **No Network Connection**  
   - If image URLs load slowly or are offline, the slideshow may display blank images.

3. **Single Timer**  
   - The 5-minute timer is universal. If you open multiple YouTube tabs, each tab uses its own overlay and timer instance.

4. **Only for YouTube Watch Pages**  
   - The extension currently only matches URLs containing `youtube.com/watch` and `youtube.com/shorts`. It won’t activate on channel pages or other sections of YouTube.

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! To contribute:

1. Fork the repository  
2. Create a new branch (e.g., `feature/add-new-animation`)  
3. Commit and push your changes  
4. Open a Pull Request describing the changes you made

Please ensure your contributions are well-tested and documented.

---

## License

[MIT License](LICENSE)

---

<p align="center">
  <b>Enjoy your productivity boost and limit those YouTube distractions!</b>
</p>
